{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14080\viewh18000\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 I watched the video Data Visualization 201 - Qualitative. This video reminded me fondly of a class I took last semester on computer machine learning. I had the experience of getting to learn and use python and some of the libraries for machine learning and got to experience first hand using tools to visualize data. It impressed me so much how small manipulations to charts using Matplotlib would make the data I was using make so much more sense. This demonstration of different formats for presenting data reminded me so much of that first hand experience and engaged me to think about the organization of data. Being a computer science student data is the air we breath and finding ways to create useful information from said data is a key component to our skill set. Data visualization isn\'92t always on the forefront of the problems were trying to solve but it does certainly help others collaborate with us. The simple recommendations of using color and other information organization design ideas makes this video very useful. As a user it is very easy to see where a problem lies in an experience, or at least we know that it feels clunky or awkward. This video goes into the nitty gritty about what makes a users experience more fluid when experiencing a display of information. At the end of the day dat visualization is no different than any other medium, it is always about balance and contrast. The contrast must be high enough to make the information clear but not so high that it muddies the other information coming in. }